Novelist Thomas Wolfe once wrote of our country, there is a mighty music to the proud, glittering names of places in America.During this campaign, I have visited places in America with such proud names, each name synonymous with the growth and progress that once made the American economy the envy of the world.Steubenville and Detroit, Youngstown and Buffalo, Pittsburgh and Seattle, Houston and Hartford and Jersey City and Lima, cities like New York and small towns like Greenville, Illinoisthe very sound of these American names evokes a feeling of confidence and strength based upon what Americans have built through hard work.But in many places the mighty music has been all but silenced. Where once there was the great, confident roar of American progress and growth and optimism, there is now the eerie, ghostly silence of economic stagnation, unemployment, inflation, and despair.If you are like most Americans, you and your family know the sound of that silence.You experience it around the dinner table when there is a discussion of how to pay for the childrens education.You experience it in supermarkets when you pick up an item, look at the price, and--placing it back on the shelf--move on.You or a loved one may have personally experienced that silence in the place where you once workedwhen it had to shut down.On street corners of our city neighborhoods it is a silence filled with anger and bitterness; on farms it is a puzzled silence, filled with questions of how things could go so wrong in a land as blessed as ours.Yes, the mighty music of American economic progress has been all but silenced by four years of Mr. Carters failures. This election will determine whether the nation and the world will ever again hear that great sound; will determine if the dinner table of your home and the supermarkets of your neighborhood will ever again be places where plans can be made and necessities can be purchased without the gnawing doubt and, yes, fear, brought by Mr. Carters inflation and unemployment.Mr. Carter recently was asked by a young woman why our country could not work out a solution to unemployment and inflation.His response was startling even by the rather extraordinary standards he has set in this campaign. He said:You know, people tend to dwell on temporary inconveniences and the transient problems that our nation faces. Unemployment a temporary inconvenience? Inflation a transient problem? These words from an American President?Recently, he told a group of labor officials his opinion of the coming election. He said:Its more important than your income. Its more important than the quality of the house that you have. Its more important than the neighborhood where you and your wife might ultimately retire.Is Mr. Carters chance of reelection as important as what has been done to your income, your home, your neighborhood, and your family?Douglas Fraser, President of the United Auto Workers, in a recent interview, was asked about the support I have been getting from union members all across America. Mr. Fraser, an avowed Carter supporter, said:Theres an absolute corelation between unemployment and Reagans support among blue-collar workers, including members of our union. . . .And weve been preaching for years that the workers vote their pocketbook. Now, if they vote their pocketbook this time, were in trouble. This is the kind of economics that the President told us in May of 1977 at our convention that he would never tolerate. . . .unless the people understand. . .this anguish, this feeling of hopelessness, I think our society is going to be in trouble.Let me remind you that those are the words of someone who publicly supports Mr. Carter. They are an extraordinary indictment of the Carter record and they accurately portray the feelings of many union members and their families, as well as many other Americans.If this is what one of Mr. Carters chief supporters thinks of his policies, what should the rest of us think? Mr. Fraser says that if workers vote their pocketbooks in this election, we, meaning Mr. Carter and his allies, are in trouble. But the problem is that American workers are in trouble nowand if they dont vote their pocketbook, who is going to do it for them?By the very standards Mr. Carter himself uses to measure presidential failure, he has failed.He promised to bring inflation down to 4 percent. Its now running at double-digit rates, and hit 18.2 percent earlier this year. The producer price index the past three months has averaged an annual rate of some 13 percent. In fact, between January 1977 and August 1980, consumer prices have risen 42.3 percent.In the fade of all this economic bad news, Mr. Carter has taken to telling voters that things will get better. But today we found the answer to that. The consumer price index released just this morning showed that the cost of living went up to an annual rate of 12.7 percent in September.Inflation is not easing; it is rapidly rising. The double digit punishment of Jimmy Carter is not receding. At this rate it will continue to eat up your incomes, ravage those of you who are retired, and destabilize our entire economy.No matter what Mr. Carter says, inflation is getting worse.Right now, as I speak to you, nearly eight million American men and women are out of work. You or a loved one may be unfortunate enough to be one of them. Their distress is obvioussavings may be destroyed, houses may be lost, and families may go unfed.As a candidate four years ago, Mr. Carter adopted what he called the misery index. He added the rate of inflation to the rate of unemployment and for 1976 it totaled 12.5 percent. This was his misery index and he suggested that no President has a right to seek reelection with an index of 12.5 percent. Today by his own standard he does not deserve reelection. The misery index is two-thirds higher than it was four years agoalmost 20 percent.Interest rates are again rising. The prime rate was only 6 percent in January 1977. It is 14 percent and rising today. The mortgage rate for new homes was 9 percent in January 1977. It is 13 percent or higher today. It is now estimated that only one in eleven young families can now afford to purchase a homesomething that used to be the hallmark of the American dream.
