Everyone speaks at this time in front of the forum that seems most appropriate to them - the one in front of a parliament, the existence, composition and origin of which we are all well aware of - and I again believed that I would have to return to where I came from that day have come, namely to the people! Because they are all members of the people, with one difference that they do not take any diets and that it is often more difficult to get to such a rally than the so-called appointed representatives of these democracies.

Before we go into the tenth year of the National Socialist German Empire, it is probably appropriate to take a look into the past and look again at the reasons for our existence, our becoming and our victory.

Today we hear very often the remark that this war was actually the Second World War, that is to say, this struggle is identified with the first, which we had seen to a large extent as soldiers. And that is not only correct in the sense that this struggle now really encompasses almost the whole world, but it is much more correct if one considers that the goals are the same, that the same forces, the caused the First World War to be responsible for today, and that these forces and powers strive for the same goals which they may not have set at the time, but which were the deepest intentions of their struggle. Not only are they the same causes, they are, above all, the same people. And I can proudly say that the only exception to this is the states that are today embodied as allies by the German Reich, Italy, Japan, etc. For one thing can surely not be denied: that Churchill was one of the meanest belligerents of the time at that time before 1914, that Mr. Roosevelt was then the little man of President Wilson, that the capitalist men of today already had the weight of theirs Influence in the scales for the war, while conversely nobody can deny that we were completely innocent of the war at that time. We were all just very small soldiers, just like you now, my dear wounded, sitting here in front of me, unknown nameless people who simply called for duty, nothing more, and who, at that time, fulfilled her duty as well as she could had.
 It is the same driving forces that are responsible for the First World War that are now responsible for the second. I would like to add one thing here: Germany at that time was a monarchy, i.e. not a National Socialist dictatorship, Germany at that time was democratic, i.e. not a National Socialist state, and Germany at that time was parliamentary, which is not what Germany is today apart from all other differences. So there must be reasons that are not in the form of government that led to the attack of these forces then and now, although in both cases they pretend that it was the form of government that called them to the scene. We Germans can’t imagine that if a state in our area suddenly acquires a certain form of government, we now declare it because this form of state does not suit us, so we have to start a war. We don't understand that at all - of course the others don't understand that either. This is one of the reasons why they don't go to war. They did not enter, and they did not go to war because it somehow irritated the form of government. Because they manage to hug the meanest state forum, if necessary, in order to make brotherhood with her. No, no, it is not the form of government, but there are other reasons that led to the war against the German Reich even then that's why we have to go to war. We don't understand that at all - of course the others don't understand that either. This is one of the reasons why they don't go to war. They did not enter, and they did not go to war because it somehow irritated the form of government. Because they manage to hug the meanest state forum, if necessary, in order to make brotherhood with her. No, no, it is not the form of government, but there are other reasons that led to the war against the German Reich even then that's why we have to go to war. We don't understand that at all - of course the others don't understand that either. This is one of the reasons why they don't go to war. They did not enter, and they did not go to war because it somehow irritated the form of government. Because they manage to hug the meanest state forum, if necessary, in order to make brotherhood with her. No, no, it is not the form of government, but there are other reasons that led to the war against the German Reich even then Because they manage to hug the meanest state forum, if necessary, in order to make brotherhood with her. No, no, it is not the form of government, but there are other reasons that led to the war against the German Reich even then Because they manage to hug the meanest state forum, if necessary, in order to make brotherhood with her. No, no, it is not the form of government, but there are other reasons that led to the war against the German Reich even then

It was England at the time the main driver of this struggle, the England, which over the course of 300 years had subjected itself only through violence, through a single series of bloody wars, to about a quarter of the entire surface of the earth. Because it was not the case that one day Indian princes or Indian tribes or Indian deputations went to London with the request: Englishmen come to India and rule us or guide us! ", But Englishmen went to India and they The English did not want to have Indians at all. They went there by force and could not be driven out by force. With violence alone, they once conquered and maintained this one continent with over 380 million people State made itself subject to tribute and interest. Behind this strength was, of course, the others who smelled business wherever there was unrest: our international Jewish acquaintances. This is how England has conquered the world over the course of a few centuries, and in order to secure this world conquest, this oppression of the peoples, has endeavored to maintain the so-called "balance of power" in Europe, that is, to strive to ensure that no European state has one could gain a certain amount of strength and perhaps could have thereby become a leading role for Europe. What they wanted was the fragmented Europe, the disintegrated, eternally balanced Europe, and to achieve this goal, England has now waged wars in Europe, war after war. At first they saw their supremacy threatened by Spain. After they finally defeated Spain, their interest turned to the Dutch. And after Holland no longer seemed to be a danger, British hatred against France concentrated. And when France was finally broken with the help of all of Europe, they believed at a moment that they had to see in Germany the factor that might be suitable for unifying Europe. And now the fight against Germany began, not out of love for the peoples, but only out of their own, most sober interest, behind which, as I said, that eternal Judaism that understands and deserves to win and win in every conflict, always in strife and strife, and can Therefore, they have always been the driving force to create unrest among the peoples,

When they brewed a world coalition against the then German Reich for the first time in 1914, they had a few reasons. At that time they said: "Germany must first be liberated from its emperor!" As such, it would have been none of the concern of the English, but an internal affair of the German people. But the English were always worried about other nations, so they wanted to liberate Germany from its emperor at that time. They went on to say: "It is militarism that makes the German people unhappy and oppressed!" - The English are everywhere against oppression and against the misfortune that is imposed on peoples. And finally they said further: "It has to end with the war, that is, the war!" - A wonderful, tempting, wonderful perspective! If you wanted to apply it retrospectively, that is, if you wanted to say: We see that war is an injustice because it is only the brutal violence that decides, we therefore want to eliminate the violence, so we want to cancel everything that has been done so far Violence has arisen. A very difficult start, of course, because the whole world has only built up according to the principle of the right of the fittest. But after all, it would have been wonderful if England had preceded the world with disgust for the war by releasing the results of its wars, that is, by making them available to the world around them again. If England had done so, it would have declared: "We detest the war, so we immediately withdraw from South Africa; we won it through war. We detest the war, that's why we leave India, because we only subjected it to wars, we detest the war, for example, that's why we also go from Egypt, because we only subjected it to violence, we also leave that entire Middle East, this too only became our own through violence "- it would have been a wonderful gesture to declare war on war in this way!

Aber unter dem Kampf, das heißt unter dem Krieg gegen den Krieg, da verstand man in England etwas anderes, nämlich man verstand unter dem Krieg den Krieg gegen jede Möglichkeit, das gegehene Unrecht auf dieser Welt noch einmal wieder gut zu machen. Dag verstand man darunter. Zu dem Zweck also: Die Macht demjenigen, der die Macht hat, und jede Macht weg von demjenigen, der sie nicht hat. Es ist so ungefähr, wie wir das auch innenpolitisch kennen, wenn Leute sagen: "Wir wollen keine Änderung mehr der Gesellschaftsordnung. Wer reich ist, soll reich bleiben, wer arm ist, muß arm bleiben; so wie es gegeben ist, ist es gewollt, und so wie es gewollt ist, soll es bleiben; denn der Mensch soll nicht aufbäumen sich gegen dasjenige, was nun einmal gewollt ist, weil es gegeben ist."

Sie kennen, meine Volksgenossen, unsere nationalsozialistische Auffassung demgegenüber. Wir sehen in jedem Zustand und zu jeder Zeit auf dieser Welt das Ergebnis eines nie sich unterbrechenden Lebensprozesses. Und es ist unmöglich, in einem bestimmten Augenblick zu sagen: Nun hört dieser Entwicklungsprozeß auf, sondern es liegt in der Natur der ganzen Entwicklung aller Dinge, daß jede Sterilisierung dieses Lebensprozesses zu einem Absterben führen muß. Es liegt im Gegenteil im Wesen der Natur, daß immer wieder der Tüchtigere emporgehoben und herausgehoben wird, das heißt also, daß man im Inneren der Völker die Bahn freimachen muß den Tüchtigen, daß man sie nicht verriegeln darf durch Gesellschaftsordnungen, daß man im Inneren der Völker nicht zu einer Sterilisierung der Vermögensverhältnisse kommen darf, sondern daß man auch im Inneren dafür sorgen muß, daß ein fortgesetzter Strom frischen Blutes von unten nach oben kommt und daß alles das, was oben faul ist,weil es träge ist, absterben soll, weil es absterben muß, weil es züm Absterben reif ist, und daß man das nicht halten soll.

So the "war against the war" was a mendacious slogan. The best evidence was that when the war ended, the prerequisites for waging new wars could not be removed, nor could the instruments for waging new wars. It would have been a wonderful gesture if, after the disarmament of Germany, as had been contractually guaranteed to us, England, America and France had also disarmed. We have warned them so many times, asked for them in the Weimar Republic, and later asked them to do so. They didn't even think about it! On the contrary, the wars continued. Only the inferior, the German people, had lost any prospect of changing his existence in this world again in his favor.

The methods now used to fight in World War I were similar to those used today. First of all struggle from outside, namely struggle in the form of bringing together coalitions. It takes a bit of Churchillian insolence to say today: "England has never been able to wage war on its own with Italy or Germany." But this same man has had the promise of a guarantee for the whole world for years. He now admits that they would not have been able to fight alone. But they guaranteed the Baltic States, they guaranteed the Balkans. They walked around saying to every country in the world: "Do you need a guarantee? Britain will step behind you with all her might and will protect you. just to defend its bare existence. And yet we lost more and more in the process.

That this was so is due to the second British method, namely the fragmentation method. At the time when the British Empire was emerging, Germany was splintering out of itself. At that time, it was thoughts that we no longer understand today, thoughts of a religious nature that were unfortunately only fought with the sword, thoughts that became horrific in their consequences, that seem to us to be of no importance in their inner nature. It was only these heavy, internal, religious struggles, which cost the German people an infinite amount of blood, that gave England the opportunity at the same time to make a claim to the world that it would never have had in number or importance. Because I have to point out again that it is not so that we Germans are upstarts, but if you want to talk about upstarts, it is definitely the English, and not us! We have an older story. And at a time when Europe knew a mighty German Empire, England was just an insignificant little green island.

In the last world war, the possibility of this fragmentation was seen in another area. After the religious problems were no longer inciting bloodshed, the priests themselves were no longer willing to be killed for these things, and after the impossibility of engaging the German people in dynastic internal crises, a new possibility was found: des Playing out the parties. We experienced that at the time. Parties of the right and the left, falling apart again, half a dozen bourgeois appearances, half a dozen bourgeois appearances and always split. And with these parties, from the middle class to the center to the KPD., It was then possible to slowly hollow out and wear down the German people inside. Still, the course of the war was immeasurably glorious. The years 1914 to 1918, they prove one thing that the enemy did not win; it was a mean revolt, instigated by Marxist-centrist, liberalist-capitalist subjects, and behind all as the driving force of the eternal Jew. You brought Germany down then.

We know it today from the statements of the English themselves that in 1918 they were at the end of their own collapse when the revolt could perhaps be carried out in Germany a quarter of an hour before midday. Then there was the cowardice of those who ruled at the time, their indecisiveness, their halfness, their own insecurity. And so the First World War could be lost on its own, not through the merits of our opponents, but solely out of our own fault.

The consequences of this collapse in November were not, for example, the inclusion of Germany in the open arms of world democracy, the concerns of the others for the liberation of the German people from their burdens, for the elevation of the German people to a higher cultural level; they could not do that because they were on a much deeper level themselves, but the consequences were now only the most appalling breakdown, politically and economically, that a people had ever seen.

At that time a man came up to us who had inflicted immense damage on the German people: Woodrow Wilson, the man who lied with an iron brow, if Germany lay down her arms, it would have a peace of reconciliation, understanding, then it would not losing its colonies, but colonial problems would be sorted fairly. The man lied to us that general disarmament would come, that we should then be accepted into the same covenant of nations and peoples with equal rights, etc. He lied to us that secret diplomacy would thereby be eliminated, and that a new age was now taking place of peace, equality, reason, etc. The little man of this arch liar was today's President Roosevelt. So he was his right hand. Our German people trusted this back then. He had no idea that this was an American president, that is, a man who is not committed to the truth, who can, for example, speak calmly before an election. "I will stand up to the war," and after the election can say: "I stand up for the war", and who, when questioned, can just as calmly declare: "I said that because I was thought there would be stupid people who take that for truth and choose me for it. " However, it was not known yet that this was a paralytic, a madman who led this people at that time, with whom the German people had never had a conflict in their history.

So came the hour of the most bitter disappointment, which began at the moment when the German negotiators in the forest of Compiègne, which we now know for the second time, approached the saloon car and were initially approached with the harsh question: "What do the gentlemen want here? ? " There was an armistice, which in fact meant total defenselessness. And the consequence of this ceasefire was the peace treaty, the complete disarmament of our people and thus the legalization and at the same time a plundering and exploitation by an international financial conspiracy that threw our people into deep misery. It had previously been declared: "Anyone who claims that we intend to take the colonies from Germany is lying." It was taken away from us! They said: "Anyone who claims that we intend to kill Germany for its merchant fleet is not telling the truth." It was taken away from us! It had been said beforehand: "Anyone who claims that we want to tear away parts of the German people will incite the people." We were taken away part by part later! All promises have been broken! In a few months, the German people sank into an unimaginable deep despair, despair, nowhere on all corners now and then hope, a starved people, to whom you did not return your prisoners of war even after the ceasefire, even the peace, was signed People who were given no food even when it was already defenseless, which they only blackmailed again and again,

If you keep that in mind today, you will now find yourself in a state of anger and hatred of a world in which something like this is conceivable and possible.

I entered political life with the decision to reestablish this Germany. It was such a crazy decision in the eyes of many others that my next friends didn't understand me at all. I have gained the strength to make this decision only from the knowledge of the people. If I had only known the top ten thousand at the time, believe me, my fellow citizens, I would not be standing in front of you today. I would never have had the courage to think this revolutionary idea: determination and faith. At that time, I primarily knew the general public. I especially knew my comrades. I knew these men had done something immeasurable, unimaginable for four years. I knew how reliable they were. I knew that if they only had the right guidance, that their comrades would never have been able to surrender, especially not because everyone knew that so many of my comrades had fallen for what I am fighting for. I can't let that down, it would be a betrayal of my own comrades. They went out of life just as hard as I did. They also committed their lives.

I knew this broad mass of the German people from my background, from my life at that time. And this mass has not only given me faith in my people, but has given them new and also strengthened them later on over the years whenever adverse circumstances or some misfortune seemed to speak against the realization of my plan.

I was aware that the whole development, as we had had in the past twenty or thirty years before the war, had to lead to nothing more than a book. And so I made the decision to declare the struggle from the ground up, that is, not to simply explain: I want Germany to have a Wehrmacht again, an army or an air force, but I was in the mood make it clear that the structure of our social order had to be reshaped first, that we had to let the blood flow from below into the dead body of our people, and that for this purpose the social order had to undergo serious interventions. I didn’t consider this intervention possible after reaching power, but I was convinced that power could only be given to the body that would already embody the face and essence of the new state, which means that I was determined to build up a very small movement, starting with a few people, which should already embody in itself what I later envisaged as essential for the whole. And it was perhaps not so difficult, as some thought, since I was saved from the danger that unworthy nerds or selfish people would come into my ranks at that time. Because whoever came to this movement in 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922, 1923 had to be a limitless idealist. Anyone else who could only say, "This is a complete fool who wants to build a new people, who came to me during this time and later, they had nothing to gain, they just had everything to lose. And how many have lost everything, until life. who came to me during this time and later, they had nothing to gain, they just had everything to lose. And how many have lost everything, until life.

I have now started this fight against stupidity, stupidity and sluggishness of our so-called upper classes. I started him against the cowardice that was spreading everywhere, that cowardice that was always disguised as wisdom and said that you have to submit, you have to be patient, or, as Mr. Erzberger said: "Sign everything, sign everything, what they present to us, then they will forgive us, then they will be good again. " At that time I had to fight this excessive cowardice, which preferred everything to withstand, in small and gradually in larger circles. How often have we not seen this bourgeoisie keep telling us: "Why do you take to the streets, you see, the others don't want that, so there are always conflicts. - Why? Because you are provoking, so do not provoke, hold back, be quiet. "And we were not silent; at that time I set up the program: The German street belongs to the German man and not the Jews. And I have it conquered these German men, not by the wisdom of the cowards, but by the bravery of those daredevils who at the time had joined me and who were willing to fight the road clear of our enemies and opponents and slowly the German colors in them again German streets, into the German markets, villages and cities, and I had to keep fighting at that time against so many interests of everyone. And we have not been silent; At that time I set up the program: The German street belongs to the German man and not the Jews. And I conquered them to these German men, not by the cleverness of the cowards, but by the bravery of those daredevils who at that time had joined me and who were willing to fight the road from our enemies and opponents with me, and slowly again German colors in these German streets, in the German markets, villages and cities. And I had to keep fighting against so many interests of everyone at the time. And we have not been silent; At that time I set up the program: The German street belongs to the German man and not the Jews. And I conquered them to these German men, not by the cleverness of the cowards, but by the bravery of those daredevils who at that time had joined me and who were willing to fight the road from our enemies and opponents with me, and slowly again German colors in these German streets, in the German markets, villages and cities. And I had to keep fighting against so many interests of everyone at the time. not by the wisdom of the cowards, but by the bravery of those daredevils who at the time had joined me and who were willing to fight the streets of our enemies and opponents with me and slowly the German colors in these German streets, in the German markets, villages and cities. And I had to keep fighting against so many interests of everyone at the time. not by the wisdom of the cowards, but by the bravery of those daredevils who at the time had joined me and who were willing to fight the streets of our enemies and opponents with me and slowly the German colors in these German streets, in the German markets, villages and cities. And I had to keep fighting against so many interests of everyone at the time.

The man from the left said to me: "You are going against my interests or you are going against my interests. My interest - I have a class interest and this class interest obliges me to kill the other one!" And the other said to me again: "Lord, stay away from our interests. We have professional interests, we also have our interests. Stay away from us, don't go in here." I had to turn against both sides. And above the interests that seemed to be in the class or that were anchored in the class, the interests that lie in the people, in this indissoluble community.

It all looks so natural today, but my old comrades-in-arms know that it was not a matter of course to bring these truisms into the cross skulls of our people from the left and from the right. Some did not want to take up this thought, simply out of tenacity because they said: "What, we will smash the skulls of others!" And the others, they didn't want to take them in because of sluggishness or stupidity, because of sluggish thoughts, because they said: "That wasn't up to now, why should we suddenly change now? Anyway, you can't ask me to do it with you I just can't give these people out of the people. You know, in the end you even ask me to sit down on the tram to some other person. So,

So it wasn't all that easy to slowly get out of this people one by one, and how many ran away again. It wasn't like that, my comrades-in-arms, as if everyone who came to me at the time also stayed with me. Sometimes I won 50, 60 somewhere in one place, and three months later it was just 6 or 7 or 8. Everything else was gone. And you had to start again. But I had a calculation at the time: if I win a hundred, and there are only ten left to me, and the other ninety leave again, then gradually, if I win a thousand, it will be a hundred, if I win ten thousand, there will be a thousand remain, and gradually the number of those who stay will increase. And if one has perhaps left the second and the third time, then perhaps he is reluctant to leave the fifth time, but will then remain there. And so, with incredible patience and tenacity and persistence, I will slowly build myself a new national community in the German Empire. The others may laugh or scoff at whatever they like, that's the same. They may take action against us, right away, then we will fight back. We will not surrender. We will not leave the street, we will not vacate our seats, but we will continue to hit until we either lie down or the other gives way and clears the way for us. Basic principles for us National Socialists today, but then completely new ideas, new insights,

And then there was another one: the cursed tradition in which everyone grew up, from which he believed he could not break free, this whole problem of education, these eggshells, which the individual throws off much more difficult than anything else , the opinion that he was just born differently. One cannot just mix with the general public because he comes from the social class, and the other cannot because he comes from the other. It was a struggle against traditions and, of course, against the educational elements that are all too easily confused with the value of people. Because people said: "As an educated person, you can't expect me to go into a local group in which a day laborer is the leader anyway." I first had to teach people that leadership has nothing to do with an abstract knowledge that you got pumped into a college. One is trained and often practiced with God knows how much extra hours and aids, and the other is innate and will always prevail. And to find a synthesis here, to find a marriage between the natural disposition to lead and the necessary knowledge, that was the big task.

You didn't understand that at the time. It was a struggle against almost all habits of life and now also a struggle against the most natural interests, in which the individual said: "Yes, listen, if I really join you, I will lose my business!" And the other again: "Then I fly out of my workplace. My colleagues, they don't tolerate that!" - What do you think, my comrades-in-arms, what a heroism it was then to be the first National Socialist in a mine, to be in a factory, but I admit that I was also a heroism, the first National Socialist in a salon; some because they have been physically threatened and others because they have been threatened mentally. And I don’t know which is worse: a physical threat than a mental fool, which may possibly destroy a person even faster than the physical threat. It was heroes who came to us at that time.

And I would like to explain something here: These heroes actually continued the war in 1914/18. Later it was often portrayed as if there were soldiers here and a party here. No, it used to be the soldiers, the best soldiers! Namely, those eternal soldiers who did not want to and could not endure submission, as I am still convinced today that a really good National Socialist will always be the best soldier.

And now there were the organized opponents. At first there were about 46 or 47 parties. That fluctuated depending on whether the cyclists or the allotment gardeners or cottagers or other people came together. But there were sometimes up to 46 parties. Organized opponents And above all, of course, the party secretaries, their officials, who naturally saw us as the ruin of their entire existence, because where should a bourgeois party world finally represented, represented by its syndici, party secretaries, etc., and where should a proletarian party world, represented by Union leaders and party secretaries again, when suddenly someone comes and says: "The whole fight is a madness in itself, you fight here for something that does not benefit anyone, then where do the union secretaries and syndiei go? And where do the dear Jews come from, who were interested in both camps, who both directed capital on the one hand and led the anti-capitalists on the other, often from two families of two brothers in two camps.

My fellows! When I started this fight at the time, I was well aware that it was a fight against an entire world, and how difficult it was, only my old fellow soldiers could judge.

I can say that the war hadn't ended for me since 1914. I continued to fight as I could only speak again, and I moved up and down the country, from place to place, from town to town and only talked, talked and talked and worked again, always with just one thought, the German people to redeem from this fragmentation, to pull it out of its lethargy, to bring it out of its sleep and to summarize it again.

And I have now found not only fighters, but also countless people over the years who have now helped us. Women and men who gave everything, for whom the party was everything. The others, these poor middle-class people, cannot understand that at all, they cannot understand what National Socialism meant for many families, that they had only thought about their movement all day long, that they gave everything for it, that they gave it for it worked, put every victim to it! The whole nation knows it today. What were then small groups are today the millions of German comrades who go to the collection points and today as members of our community for our Wehrmacht, for our soldiers, if necessary,

The happiness of being able to serve something, to be allowed to sacrifice for it, which millions have today, was something that only the few National Socialists in our movement had at that time. How great luck was, can also be measured by everyone who can say today: I do everything for my people, everything for our soldiers, so that they can survive.

Because from the small movement of that time, the German national community has grown, slowly, but that was a good thing. It took time. But it was. This fight for the soul of our people, it did not run continuously in a steady ascent, but there were also days of severe distress, times of deepest setback. I just need to remind you of 1923. I was fighting back then. In the Ruhr area, there was our enemy. Germany was ruined by inflation. The whole German people seemed to be facing unprecedented misery. And the Jew triumphed over everything. He spoiled our people, he benefited from our misfortune. And I tried then as aMan get the power in his fist to stop it. And the moment I was allowed to believe I could get that power, fate knocked me to the ground, and instead of taking power, I was put in prison.

And now in this time, the movement had to prove itself. And of course I myself too. And I can already say that at this moment, as soon as I had not regained consciousness, I immediately took new courage and regained my old belief. My opponents said: "Now he's dead! You don't have to pay any attention to it, you don't need to mention it anymore. National Socialism is a done deal." After thirteen months I returned and started again. And I think that was perhaps the decisive factor for our party: Weak people can take victories, fatalities can endure, only the strong can do that! And Providence only gives the last highest price to those who can

I got the first big blow in the movement on a large scale. He was overcome a few years later. Those who were close to me at the time know what it took to work and nerve strength. But I have also received this irrepressible trust, also in myself, that nothing, whatever it is, can ever throw me out of my saddle, that nothing can shake me anymore, and that the one who believes me through will go wrong to be able to scare anything, to amaze. Back then I took a word from a great German philosopher to heart: "A push that doesn't knock a strong man down only strengthens him!"

And what was abroad like then? We took no notice of it, because this foreign country was taught by its diplomats, and the diplomats circulate in circles in which National Socialists were not able to circulate at the time, did not want to circulate, and I were not allowed to circulate. These diplomats sent wonderful reports to their governments, in which they portrayed the entire empire of the empire, and overlooked the power that the whole empire was destined to take over one day. They treated Germany at that time as if there was no National Socialist at all, or if there had never been one.

And how they treated this Germany! You Germany, you demokratisches Deutschland! Das Kind, das sie selbst einst gezeugt hatten, diese Mißgeburt parlamentarischer Demokratie, Weimarer Verfassung und Versailler Gesetzgebung! Wie haben sie diese Geburt mißhandelt, erpreßt und ausgedrückt. Wenn sie heute so tun, als ob sie gegen die Nationalsozialisten wären oder das nationalsozialistische Deutschland ablehnten, was haben sie denn dem demokratischen Deutschland zugefügt! Nur mit einem Unterschied. Uns können sie ja gar nicht, aber leider dem demokratischen Deutschland konnten sie! Uns ist das ja ganz gleichgültig, wie sie über uns urteilen. Ich habe ja nie einen Wert darauf gelegt, wie das Ausland über mich urteilt. Es ist mir ganz gleichgültig. Wenn mich meine Feinde einmal loben sollten, dann kann mich das deutsche Volk zum Teufel jagen. Also, uns und mir, uns war das gleichgültig. Aber das demokratische Deutschland haben sie mißhandelt, dieses Deutschland, das dann in den VöIkerbund hineinkroch, das dort herumwinselte und herumbettelte, von einer Anleihe zur anderen kam, und abgespeist wurde mit einigen Brosamen, die vom Tische dieser sogenannten Besitzenden herunterfielen. Sie sind wirklich als Habenichtse behandelt worden, aber sie hatten wenigstens die Ehre, in Genf sitzen zu dürfen. Man hat ihnen alle Menschenrechte verweigert, aber sie hatten die Ehre, hier und da auf einer internationalen Konferenz teilnehmen oder sogar präsidieren zu dürfen. Man hat das Selbstbestimmungsrecht des deutschen Volkes in dieser Zeit mißhandelt, man hat sich um nichts gekümmert, aber sie durften wenigstens vom Selbstbestimmungsrecht im Genfer Völkerbundsparlament, andere Nationen betreffend, sprechen, und sie waren damit schon glücklich und zufrieden.

Disarmament: If you say today, this Germany, this Nazi Germany, it has forced us to arm! - Apart from the fact that I often presented them with proposals for disarmament - there was once a Germany that had no armament at all. Why didn't they disarm at that time? You could do that. Or do you think that Stresemann or Marx or any of these gentlemen, Wirth, Bauer, Ebert, Scheidemann, would have declared war on the world? Well, no one can fool you. They didn't believe that themselves either. At that time they could disarm. You didn't do it. On the contrary, they continued the wars. Some got stuck there, others there. The English no longer cared for their allies. They cheated the Arabs out of their right to self-determination. The Indians, who only needed them during the war, were later taken away from their promises.

They knew exactly why Germany had to disarm! They have done all this to democracy! And then the immense unemployment, the economic misery, where has all the economic aid in the world gone? Where were they, the thousand artists? When I read in the newspaper today that President Roosevelt explains that America will give the world a new economic system, a new one, yes, but it will be a miserable one, namely the system with which he himself went so bankrupt that he finally believed that the only way to save herself from the people's judiciary was through war. Even economically, the German people did not get what they were promised before the Versailles days.

On the contrary, like the other world, it collapsed more and more. Unemployment rose and grew. The years from 1923 to 1930, they are years of continued experimentation, but of a permanent economic decline, an uninterrupted abandonment of economic sovereign rights of the German people, abandonment but also economic substances. And you had to watch all of this in those years. I have now fought. But even in these years, my comrades-in-arms, there were many setbacks: bans on the party, soon I was again not allowed to speak for two years, then local groups were dissolved again, then the movement was banned again in entire German states; in short, it was a constant struggle with continuous setbacks.

Now we should have been involved in the government. On the contrary! Now the suppression began and it continued to increase. It was an ongoing struggle that now also used terror. How many party comrades have we lost during this time, all murdered assassinated. Over 40,000 injuries can be counted in these few years. And then came the year 1932. First presidential election. Another setback. The second presidential election, she saw the party caught again. And then comes election after election, battle after battle this year for internal power in the state. It was a struggle with everything at stake. Many have had to pay for their lives this year, many have gone to prisons.

And then July came with an overwhelming victory. And now everything shouted: The hour of taking power has come! And the hour passed again. It had to go away again. And then there was another setback and then a final battle and finally the day we remember today.

Well, my comrades-in-arms, I only held this up to you very briefly to show you one thing above all: the victory we are celebrating here today was not an easy gift for us at the time, but the victory is connected been with exertion, with sacrifices, with deprivation, with uninterrupted work and with unrivaled setbacks. And if you had asked someone on January 25th: "Do you think that this person - that was just me then - would come to power?", Then everyone would have told you on the 25th and 28th : "No way!" And when I came to power on the 30th, a wise man said: "Only for six weeks" Today is nine years!

And now I have to mention something else. I told you, my comrades-in-arms, what I found in 1919 when I launched the party. I told you what the situation was after my first major collapse. In a few sentences, however, I have to remind you of what I took over on January 30: it was an inheritance that hardly anyone wanted to take on. Everything is ruined, the economy is destroyed, seven million people are unemployed, and that increased from week to week, seven million short-time workers, the imperial finances a gigantic deficit of almost three billion, the state finances enormous deficits, the communities in debt up to, the peasantry before the perfect Collapse, before the land was auctioned, trade paralyzed, Traffic closed, our shipping no longer available. Everything seemed dead in Germany now. I did that back then. It was not a brilliant inheritance, but I considered it my honor to take something over, not at the moment when it was flourishing, but at the moment when others said: "Everything is already lost there nobody can help anymore. "

I dared to do it back then, I was fully aware that if I hadn't succeeded, I would probably have been stoned to death and would have been declared, "Now you have it!" I dared and we won. In a few years, we have dealt with these problems.

In 1933/34 I first created order inside, the parties and all this nonsense immediately eliminated. With the founding of the German Labor Front under party comrades Ley, I was given the prerequisites to finally be able to approach the economic problems sensibly at all without being constantly disturbed by two sides; one by constantly saying "I'm locking out" and the other saying. "I strike." And sufferers are both parts. I started to stabilize the German currency through ruthless pressure from above. But I started to stabilize it not only by pressure from above, but by putting German production behind the German mark again.

All of this is easy to say today. But it wasn't easy back then. Because if it had been that easy, why didn't my opponents do it? At the same time, I started pushing back all of the alien elements in Germany, especially our global citizens. During this time I started to insert the individual countries into the empire. When the year 1934 came, I had actually finished internally with the most essential prerequisite to make the German people only enjoy their work. Instead of countless state parliaments, there was only one imperial sovereignty. Instead of countless parties, only a single leadership of the German people. Instead of countless business organizations, a summary of all in one hand. Of course, first everyone scolded who was threatened by this in their interest. But nobody can deny one thing, neither from the right nor from the left, in the end everyone was better off than before. And whatever the one might have had to give up at the moment, he has regained it by reason, which now underlies all actions, and by insight into what is necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. which was threatened in his interest. But nobody can deny one thing, neither from the right nor from the left, in the end everyone was better off than before. And whatever the one might have had to give up at the moment, he has regained it by reason, which now underlies all actions, and by insight into what is necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. which was threatened in his interest. But nobody can deny one thing, neither from the right nor from the left, in the end everyone was better off than before. And whatever the one might have had to give up at the moment, he has regained it by reason, which now underlies all actions, and by insight into what is necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. neither from the right nor from the left, in the end everyone was better off than before. And whatever the one might have had to give up at the moment, he has regained it by reason, which now underlies all actions, and by insight into what is necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. neither from the right nor from the left, in the end everyone was better off than before. And whatever the one might have had to give up at the moment, he has regained it by reason, which now underlies all actions, and by insight into what is necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. which was the basis of all actions, and by insight into what was necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament. which was the basis of all actions, and by insight into what was necessary. In 1935 freedom began to prevail. You still know all this: introduction of compulsory military service, 1936 removal of these oppressive Versailles bonds that affected the Rhineland. Restoration of our imperial sovereignty, completion of our rearmament in 1937 and 1938, not without first making numerous offers to the others to spare us this rearmament.

Because one thing, my comrades-in-arms, you all have to admit that wherever you may be from, you can see works of peace everywhere today that we could not continue with the war. Everywhere you see large buildings, schools, settlements that the war prevents us from continuing.

Before I entered this war, I had started, started, or partially completed a huge program of social, economic, and cultural work. There were new plans everywhere, new projects ahead of me.

On the other hand, when I look at my opponents: what they really created? They could easily go to war. The war has not robbed them of an act of peace because they have created nothing. That gossip, that drunkard Churchill, what was he really doing in his life, this lying subject, a first-rate lazy-headed fool? If this war had not come, then centuries would have spoken of our age and of all of us and also of myself as the creator of great works of peace. But if this war had not come, who would speak of Churchill? That is how one will speak of him someday, but as the destroyer of an empire that he and not we destroyed. One of the most miserable herostatic natures in world history, unable to create anything

I don't want to talk about his companion in the White House - a pathetic lunatic!

However, the more we worked, the more we put Germany in order, the more hatred, unfortunately, grew. Because now something was added. Now the narrow-minded hatred of social classes came abroad who believed that the German model, the socialist German model, could possibly also break in there. I heard it so often that foreigners said to me themselves: "Yes, you know, but of course these National Socialist ideas are not feasible for us." I said: "I am not asking you to do it, on the contrary, I am not there to care for the happiness of other peoples, but I only feel responsible for my own people. I work for that. I on my sleepless nights I will be burdened with one more for abroad! "And still, they said:" No, already the example, your example, that's it. The example spoils good manners ", that is, in the case of bad habits and bad virtues or virtues. They said:" Your ships are there with us, we cannot allow KdF. Ships to land with us. "" Why not? "" That spoils our workforce. "Why should that spoil the workforce? I don't see that the German worker has worked more than ever, why shouldn't he recover then? Isn't it a joke, when today this man from the White House says: "We have a world program and this world program should give people freedom and the right to work?" Mr. Roosevelt! Open your eyes - we've had that in Germany for a long time. Or when he says illness should be taken care of. - Get out of the garden of our party program, this is National Socialist, not your teaching, sir, this is heresy for a Democrat. Or when he says: "We want the worker to get a vacation too." You want that very late, because we've already done that. And we would be a lot further if you hadn't interfered with us.

Or when he says: "We want to increase prosperity, also for the general public." These are all things that are in our program. He could have done it much easier if he hadn't started a war. Because we did it without war, before the war. No, these capitalist hyenas don't even think about doing this. They only see us as the bad example, and in order to bait their own peoples, they have to step into our party program and pick out individual sentences, these poor bunglers. And they make it stupid.

We had a closed world here against us. Not just from the right, of course, but also from the left. Because the people from the left told us: "If this succeeds, this experiment will actually do it ... it can do it and eliminate the housing shortage, it will do it and introduce a school system, on the basis of which every talented boy, completely no matter what parents he has or what kind of parents he is, God knows what position he can take; he can do it, and he can turn former agricultural workers into imperial governors, he can do it and actually introduce a pension scheme for a whole people Man who manages it and actually leads this people on vacation, builds ships for them, brings them into an orderly and secure way of life; yes, What are we doing? We live from the fact that this is not there. That is what we live on, so fight against this National Socialism! "

What the others have created here, I have to say, unfortunately, see that and my comrades saw it best in Russia. We have been at the helm for nine years now. Bolshevism has been at the helm since 1917 - almost twenty-five years. Anyone can make a judgment who now compares this Russia with Germany. What have we created in nine years, what does the German people look like and what have they created there? I don't want to talk about the capitalist states. They don't care about their unemployed at all. For an American millionaire, of course, an unemployed person is something he does not see at all because he does not come to the area where they are and who do not come to the area where he lives. Here and there they’re going to go on a hunger march to Washington, to the White House or to the Capitol, but then they are driven apart somewhere by the police with rubber truncheons and tear gas, etc.: all things that are not available in autocratic Germany. We have never used these means against our people. We can cope without rubber truncheons and without these things, without tear gas.

In other words, we really had a closed world of opponents against us, and it goes without saying that this only increased at the moment of taking power. I tried to introduce a certain foreign policy. You already know her from my struggle. I wanted to have a close relationship with three countries: England, Italy and Japan.

That attempt to reach an understanding with England was completely futile. There were people here who seemed unable to get out of their stubborn insane ideology, bias, and stubbornness. They saw an enemy in Germany. People did not even realize that the world had changed significantly since the time of her great Queen Victoria. They did not realize that it was not Germany ultimately threatening their Ernpire, but that this empire could only be maintained if they found a close connection to Europe. On the contrary, they fought against Europe at every opportunity. And here was above all the man I mentioned a couple of times: Churchill. Any attempt to get this man even the idea of ​​understanding failed because of his stubborn: "I want to have a war." There was absolutely no talking to this man, and there was that clique of Duff Cooper around him - well, it's sad if you just mention the name, it's really such zeros! It is interesting how they are thrown out themselves when a man gets somewhere, like Wavell now. But it doesn't matter. These are unbreakable eggs: wherever they fall, they somehow remain there for a while. They have been lying in limestone for too long all the time - and that, seen over centuries, harms generations, genders and also individuals. I do not want to speak of the Jews here either - they are our old adversaries anyway, they gave us a cross-over of their plans, and they rightly hate us, just like we hate them. We are aware that this war could only end with either exterminating the Germanic peoples or with Judaism disappearing from Europe. On September 1, 1939, I already said it in the German Reichstag - and I am wary of hasty prophecies - that this war will not end as the Jews imagine, namely that the European Aryan peoples will be exterminated, but that The result of this war is the annihilation of Judaism. For the first time, others will not bleed to death alone, but for the first time this time the really old Jewish law is applied: eye for eye, tooth for tooth! that either the Germanic peoples will be exterminated, or that Judaism will disappear from Europe. On September 1, 1939, I already said it in the German Reichstag - and I am wary of hasty prophecies - that this war will not end as the Jews imagine, namely that the European Aryan peoples will be exterminated, but that The result of this war is the annihilation of Judaism. For the first time, others will not bleed to death alone, but for the first time this time the really old Jewish law is applied: eye for eye, tooth for tooth! that either the Germanic peoples will be exterminated, or that Judaism will disappear from Europe. On September 1, 1939, I already said it in the German Reichstag - and I am wary of hasty prophecies - that this war will not end as the Jews imagine, namely that the European Aryan peoples will be exterminated, but that The result of this war is the annihilation of Judaism. For the first time, others will not bleed to death alone, but for the first time this time the really old Jewish law is applied: eye for eye, tooth for tooth! as the Jews imagine, namely that the European Aryan peoples will be exterminated, but that the result of this war will be the annihilation of Judaism. For the first time, others will not bleed to death alone, but for the first time this time the really old Jewish law is applied: eye for eye, tooth for tooth! as the Jews imagine, namely that the European Aryan peoples will be exterminated, but that the result of this war will be the annihilation of Judaism. For the first time, others will not bleed to death alone, but for the first time this time the really old Jewish law is applied: eye for eye, tooth for tooth!

And the further this fight spreads. This struggle - anti-Semitism - will spread even more with this struggle - as world Jewry may say. He will find food in every prison camp, he will find food in every family .. which will explain why she ultimately has to make her sacrifices. And the hour will come when the worst enemy of the world of all time will once again play out his role for at least a millennium.

With England, this attempt was unsuccessful, whatever I did, no matter how often I held out my hand, what I had offered them - to my really deepest dismay.

I was all the happier that with the second state I found the relationship we were trying to achieve. This is actually not a miracle at all, but it would almost be a miracle if it had gone differently. Because it is already - I said that to a deputation today - no coincidence when two races experience almost exactly the same fate in less than a hundred years. In the past century: Germany is fighting for its state rebirth, for its state unification. And Italy is fighting for its state agreement. And for the first time both countries went with each other once. Then the two states diverge and the two states no longer find their happiness. And now a revolution is coming at almost the same time in both states, like an idea, as is only conceivable with two different races. Both revolutions take almost the same course. Serious setbacks everywhere, but ultimately victory. Both revolutions were a program of socialist and national rebirth. Both revolutions steadfastly carry out this program. Both arouse the hatred of their environment, both revolutions represent peoples who cannot find daily bread on their own land despite all diligence. One day both nations face the same enemies, the same international coalition, without their will. It started in 1935 when England suddenly turned against Italy without any cause. Italy has taken nothing from England. Simply for the reason: "We don't want So the two countries are again facing the same enemies, for the same reasons. And they are forced to fight with each other, to fight the same fight, to be connected for life and for death.

And then there is something fourth. I also mentioned this today: in both cases it is men, two men who came from the people, who founded the revolutions and who led the states up. I have read a great deal about the Italian fascist revolution in the few free hours I have had in the past few weeks, and it seemed to me as if I had the story of my own party in front of me: something like that, something like that , the same struggle, the same enemies, the same opponents, the same arguments; it is really a strange miracle. And now we are fighting in the same theaters of war, Germans in Africa, Italians in the East War theater. We fight together, and one should not be mistaken: this fight will be carried out until the common victory!

And now the third country has finally joined us, with which I have always wanted good relations for many years. You all know it from "Mein Kampf": Japan!

And now the three great have-nots are united, and we want to see who is the stronger in this fight: those who have nothing to lose but everything to gain, or those who have everything to lose and nothing to gain. Because what does England want to win? What does America want to win? What do they all want to win? They have so much that they don't know what to do with what they own: few people in a square kilometer need to feed them, they don't have all the worries we have. For us, a single bad harvest means national misfortune - they have a whole world at their disposal. They once plundered and exploited and squeezed us out for decades, and yet they could not eliminate their own economic hardship. You have raw materials, as much as they want to salvage at all, and they are unable to actually find a reasonable solution to their problems. We will now see who Providence gives the winner in this fight! The one who has everything and who wants to take away the last thing from the other, who has almost nothing, or who defends what he calls his last. And if a British archbishop prays to God that he wants to send Bolshevism over Germany and over Europe as a punishment, I can only say: he doesn't come over Germany, but whether he doesn't come over England is another question. And then this old sinner and godfather may try to find out whether he will banish this British danger himself with his prayer. We have England, France, we have never done anything to America. Nevertheless, the declaration of war was made in 1939. And it has now expanded.

Now you have to understand me correctly from my whole story. I once uttered a word that the foreign country didn't understand at all. I said: If the war is inevitable, I'd rather wage it; not because I am thirsty for this glory - on the contrary: I like to forego any glory here, in my eyes that is no glory at all. My fame will be. if providence preserves my life, exist in the great works of peace that I still intend to create! But because I believe that if Providence did so, that this struggle must be fought according to the unexplored will of that Providence, then I can only ask Providence to entrust me with the burden of this struggle, that it she imposes on me. I want to wear them and don't want to shy away from any responsibility. I want to take this burden on myself every hour of an emergency. I want to take on every responsibility as I have borne so far. I have the greatest authority in this people. It knows me, it knows what plans I had in my infinite years before the war. Everywhere it sees the witnesses of the beginning of this work, partly also the documents of the completion. I know that this people trust me. I am so happy to know that. But the German people can also be convinced of one thing: a year 1918 will never happen as long as I live! This flag will never go down! I want to take on every responsibility as I have borne so far. I have the greatest authority in this people. It knows me, it knows what plans I had in my infinite years before the war. Everywhere it sees the witnesses of the beginning of this work, partly also the documents of the completion. I know that this people trust me. I am so happy to know that. But the German people can also be convinced of one thing: a year 1918 will never happen as long as I live! This flag will never go down! I want to take on every responsibility as I have borne so far. I have the greatest authority in this people. It knows me, it knows what plans I had in my infinite years before the war. Everywhere it sees the witnesses of the beginning of this work, partly also the documents of the completion. I know that this people trust me. I am so happy to know that. But the German people can also be convinced of one thing: a year 1918 will never happen as long as I live! This flag will never go down! that this people trust me. I am so happy to know that. But the German people can also be convinced of one thing: a year 1918 will never happen as long as I live! This flag will never go down! that this people trust me. I am so happy to know that. But the German people can also be convinced of one thing: a year 1918 will never happen as long as I live! This flag will never go down!

I am happy that so many allies have joined our soldiers: in the south of Italy, in the very north of Finland and in between now all the other nations that also send their sons here to the east: whether they are Romanians or Hungarians, Slovaks or Croatians, Spaniards, Belgians, even Frenchmen met at this place ... and the volunteers of our Germanic states from the north and from the west. It is already a war in Europe today. And finally in the East as a new ally who has already driven out a man's ridiculous phrases: Japan.

I don't want to speak much about the war itself. History already speaks here: in 1939 the settlement of Poland, in 1940 Norway and France and England, the Netherlands and Belgium, in 1941 first the Balkans and then finally the state, of which Mister Cripps only assured us a few days ago in his chattiness, that he had been preparing to deal with Germany for years. I knew that. The moment I realized that a wrong game was being played, the moment I learned that Mr. Churchill was already pointing out this new ally at his secret meetings, the hour that it was here in Berlin Molotow passed, namely passed under the auspices of a failed communication - because he asked for things that I could no longer approve -,

And here too I am grateful to fate for placing me at the head of the empire, so that the other were not given the fortnight or three weeks to take the first blow. Because if you have to fight, I take the position that the first blow is often the decisive one.

And we have also seen this in East Asia. We can only congratulate Japan that, instead of haggling with this lying subject, it struck without further ado.

And now, since June 22nd, our soldiers in the east have been fighting a fight that will go down in history as a heroic song of our people. At sea, our naval forces and our submarines, which are now shaming what President Roosevelt intended. He intended to gradually displace the German submarine weapon from the ocean through simple declarations of American sovereignty and to follow a very small route that could have been appreciated by the British naval forces. And that, my comrades-in-arms, was also the reason for the drop in the sinking numbers, not the lack of or the decreasing number of submarines. On the contrary! It has increased enormously. Not even the lack of courage on the part of our crews,

You will understand that it has always been an overcoming task for me to decide whether to put an end to all this deceit or to have a new restriction imposed for the sake of peace. The Japanese attack has finally relieved us of this need. Now they will be able to hit convoys on all the world's oceans, and now they will see how our submarines work. And whatever your plans and whatever your plans may be, we are ready for anything from north to south, from desert to east. And they may be clear about one thing. I have said this before: you come across a different Germany today than you used to have, you now come across a Frederician. We'll fight where we stand not give up an inch of ground without a fight. And if we give up a foot's breadth, go straight forward again. And we are so happy to have known since yesterday that Colonel-General Rommel, with his brave Italian and German Panzer and Mot. Men, turned back again and again as soon as they thought they had hit him struck back. And they will continue to experience this until this war ends with our victory.

Our air force is the third to add these two weapons. Your fame is imperishable. What she has accomplished in missions in the arctic cold in the far north, in the east or in the heat of the desert or in the west: It is the same everywhere: a heroism that cannot be praised with awards at all.

These three weapons, they now encompass everything that belongs to them, because I cannot single man out here. I only have to emphasize one thing again and again: It is our infantry. In the end, it does the best.

And behind these weapons there is a huge traffic organization with tens of thousands and tens of thousands of drivers and railroaders, and all of them, they are committed and will also master the most difficult tasks, because that goes without saying: the switch from forward war to defense in the east was easy Not. The defense didn't force us on the Russian, it was only 38 and 40 and 42 and sometimes 45 degrees cold. And in this cold, a troop that is not used to this can initially fight as little as it can fight in the blazing heat of the desert in certain months. Alone, at this moment, when this difficult change was necessary, I again saw it as my job to take responsibility for it on my shoulders. I wanted to move my soldiers even closer, and at this point, as far as you can hear them on these icy fronts today, I only want to assure you: I know what they are doing, but I also know that the hardest thing is behind us. Today is January 30th. Winter was the great hope of this eastern opponent. He won't give him that hope. In four months we were almost to Moscow and Leningrad. Four months of winter in the north are now over. He has advanced a few kilometers in individual places and sacrificed hecatombs in blood and human life there. Ice may be indifferent to him. But winter will break in the south in a few weeks, and then spring will move further north, the ice will melt, and then the hour will come where the ground becomes hard and firm again, and where the German musketeer can operate on it again with his device and where new weapons will come in from home, and where we will strike again and avenge those who are now only freezing to this frost Victims fell. Because I can tell you that the soldier in front has the feeling of towering superiority over the Russians. Comparing him to that would be an insult. The important thing is that this switch from attack to defense was successful, and I can say that it was successful. These fronts, they stand, and wherever individual Russians break through, and wherever they believe they might once occupy villages, they are not villages, they are just rubble heaps. What does that mean compared to what we have occupied

Because behind this front stands a German home worthy of her. I recently made an appeal to the German people in light of the knowledge that what had been prepared could not be enough to protect against frost. I wanted to express my thanks to him, this people. That appeal was tooa vote. When the others talk about democracy: this is true democracy! It has shown itself these days. And I know what so many little people have given, but this time also many, many who may have had a hard time or might previously have found it impossible to part with a precious fur. You gave it up today, realizing that the smallest animal is worth more than the most precious fur. And I made sure that things didn't go the way they did in World War II, since the country delivered copper and a copper delivery company paid 2260% dividends, because the country had to deliver other items, leather, or received no leather, and the leather processing company paid 2700% dividends paid out. Whoever enriches himself in the Third Reich dies! Because I don't know whether there's a little poor musketeer up front who might be able to save his hand with a woolen glove, or who could be protected from freezing by a warm vest that someone takes away at home. I will represent the interests of the soldier here, and I know that the whole German people stand behind me!

So I can only give you one thing for insurance on January 30th: I don't know how this year will end. I don't know if the war will end there. But I know one thing: wherever the opponent appears, we will beat him again this year, just like before! It will be another year of great victories. And just as I used to hold up the flag at all times, so now I will hold it up even more, because what a different situation I am in today!

My German comrades! My soldiers! We have a glorious history behind us and people like to make comparisons with this story. In this story, German heroes have often fought in seemingly hopeless defeat. Above all, we must not make any comparison, for example, in the Frederickian period. We have no right to do that. We have the strongest army in the world. We have the strongest air force in the world. Frederick the Great had to fight against an overwhelming superiority. When he waged the first Silesian War, 2.7 million Prussians were against a state of 15 million at the time. When he was forced to lead the third in seven years, there were 3.1 or 3.8 million Prussians against around 50 or 54 million others. A man with an iron will has held this up through all setbacks and has never denied his success, and if he wanted to despair, kept tearing himself up and then taking the flag in his strong hand. What do we want to talk about today? We have an opponent ahead of us who may outnumber us. But we will be at least on a par with him in spring. But we will beat him again with weapons. Our time will come again. And it will be like this everywhere. But above all, we have allies today. It is also no longer the time of the World War. What Japan alone is doing here in the east cannot be estimated at all. We have no other way than the way of struggle and the way of success. He may be heavy or it may be light - it is never more difficult than our ancestors' struggles. It will therefore not be easier either. And we cannot expect. that it should be easier than these fights have been. With this, however, we really fulfill all the sacrifices that our soldiers make. Who can understand that more than I, who had once been a soldier myself? I still feel like the first musketeer in the empire. I did my duty when I was just a musketeer. I fulfill them just as steadfastly today. But I understand all the suffering of my comrades, I know everything how it is with them. I can therefore and do not want to use any phrase at all. They wouldn't understand that. I can only say one thing to them, home already guesses what they have to go through. Home already guesses what it means to lie in the snow and ice at 35, 38, 40, 42 degrees cold and to defend this homeland. But because home knows that, she also wants to do everything she can to make this lot easier for them. She wants to work and she will work! And I have to ask them: German comrades at home, work, create weapons and create ammunition again! You save some and numerous comrades up there the life.

Workers, create and work on our means of transport, so that everything comes forward. The front line will stand, it will do its duty, and Germany's homeland can be safe. And the prayer of this devil priest, who wants Europe to be punished by Bolshevism, will not come true, but the prayer will come true - Lord God, give us the strength to preserve freedom, our people, our children and our children, not only us Germans, but also the other peoples of Europe. Because it is not a war that we are all waging this time only for our German people alone, it is a war for all of Europe and thus really for all of humanity.
