Donald Trump: (00:39)
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Today Israel takes a big step towards peace. Young people across the Middle East are ready for a more hopeful future and governments through out the region are realizing that terrorism and Islamic extremism are everyone’s common enemy. Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting with both the prime minister of Israel and a man that’s working very hard to become the prime minister of Israel in the longest running election of all time, Benny Gantz of the Blue and White party, and both leaders joined me to express their support for this effort, proving that the state of Israel is looking for peace and that peace transcends politics by any measure. Unmeasurable. That’s what they want. On my first trip overseas as president, I visited the Holy Land of Israel. I was deeply moved an amazed by what this small country had achieved in the face of overwhelming odds and never-ending threats. The state of Israel comprises only a minuscule amount of land in the Middle East, and yet it has become a thriving center of democracy and of ancient culture and commerce. Israel is a light unto the world, the hearts and history of our people are woven together. The land of Israel is an ancient home, a sacred place of worship, and a solemn promise to the Jewish people that we will never again repeat history’s darkest hour.

Donald Trump: (02:47)
During my trip to Israel, I also met with Palestinian President Abbas in Bethlehem. I was saddened by the fate of the Palestinian people. They deserve a far better life, they deserve the chance to achieve their extraordinary potential. Palestinians have been trapped in a cycle of terrorism, poverty, and violence exploited by those seeking to use them as pawns to advance terrorism and extremism.

Donald Trump: (03:29)
I returned from my visit determined to find a constructive path and it’s got to be a very powerful path forward in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. To further this effort, I also met with President Abbas at the White House. Forging peace between Israelis and Palestinians may be the most difficult challenge of all. All prior administrations from President Lyndon Johnson have tried and bitterly failed, but I was not elected to do small things or shy away from big problems.

Donald Trump: (04:19)
It’s been a long and very arduous process to arrive at this moment. On Sunday I delivered to Prime Minister Netanyahu my vision for peace, prosperity, and a brighter future for Israelis and Palestinians. This vision for peace is fundamentally different from past proposals. In the past, even the most well-intentioned plans were light on factual details and heavy on conceptual frameworks. By contrast, our plan is 80 pages and is the most detailed proposal ever put forward by far. As I have seen throughout my long career as a deal-maker, complex problems require nuanced, fact-based remedies. That is why our proposal provides precise technical solutions to make Israelis, Palestinians, and the region safer and much more prosperous. My vision presents a win-win opportunity for both sides, a realistic two-state solution that resolves the risk of Palestinian statehood to Israel’s security.

Donald Trump: (05:35)
Today Israel has taken a giant step toward peace. Yesterday Prime Minister Netanyahu informed me that he is willing to endorse the vision as the basis for direct negotiations, and I will say, the general also endorsed, and very strongly, with the Palestinians a historic breakthrough. And likewise, we have really a situation having to do with a race that is taking place right now. It will end and we have the support, and it’s very important to say this, of both parties and almost all people in Israel. They want peace and they want peace badly.

Donald Trump: (06:20)
This is the first time Israel has authorized the release of a conceptual map illustrating the territorial compromises it’s willing to make for the cause of peace and they’ve gone a long way. This is an unprecedented and highly significant development. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for having the courage to take this bold step forward. We have a lot of powerful people in this room, a lot of the people that can help make it work. So that’s quite a thunderous applause. Thank you very much.

Netanyahu: (07:45)
Thank you.

Donald Trump: (07:45)
Thank you. We will form a joint committee with Israel to convert the conceptual map into a more detailed and calibrated rendering so that recognition can be immediately achieved. We will also work to create a contiguous territory within the future Palestinian state, for when the conditions for statehood are met, including the firm rejection of terrorism.

Donald Trump: (08:29)
Under this vision, Jerusalem will remain Israel’s undivided, very important, undivided capital. But that’s no big deal because I’ve already done that for you. We’ve already done that, but that’s okay. It’s going to remain that way and the United States will recognize Israeli sovereignty over the territory that my vision provides to be part of the state of Israel, very important. And crucially, the proposed transition to a two-state solution will present no incremental security risk to the state of Israel whatsoever. We will not allow a return to the days of bloodshed, bus bombings, nightclub attacks, and relentless terror. Won’t be allowed. Peace requires compromise, but we will never ask Israel to compromise its security. Can’t do that.

Donald Trump: (09:59)
As everyone knows, I have done a lot for Israel, moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem, recognizing the Golan Heights, and frankly, perhaps most importantly, getting out of the terrible Iran nuclear deal. There is a lot of spirit in this room. It’s true. You don’t see it often. You don’t see it often. Therefore, it is only reasonable that I have to do a lot for the Palestinians or it just wouldn’t be fair. Don’t clap for that but it’s true. It wouldn’t be fair. I want this deal to be a great deal for the Palestinians. It has to be.

Donald Trump: (11:22)
Today’s agreement is a historic opportunity for the Palestinians to finally achieve an independent state of their very own. After 70 years of little progress, this could be the last opportunity they will ever have, and last for a lot of reasons. We’ll never have a team like we have right now. We have a team of people that love the United States, and they love Israel, and they’re very smart, and very, very committed, from your ambassador, David Friedman to Jason and Avi and Jared, and they are all great deal makers and they also understand the other side and they want the other side to do well, because that’s the sign of a great deal and they understand that.

Donald Trump: (12:22)
And I just appreciate all the hard work you’ve put in and so many of your other friends. And, of course, our great Secretary of state, Mike Pompeo. Oh, that’s impressive. That was very impressive, Mike. That reporter couldn’t have done too good a job on you yesterday. I think you did a good job on her actually. That’s good. Thank you, Mike. Great, are you running for Senate? I guess the answer is no after that. They all want him to. Kansas, great state. They want him to, but you’re doing a great job. Don’t move.

Donald Trump: (13:13)
The Palestinian people have grown distrustful after years of unfulfilled promises, so true, yet I know they are ready to escape their tragic past and realize a great destiny. But we must break free of yesterday’s failed approaches. This map will more than double the Palestinian territory and provide a Palestinian capital in eastern Jerusalem where America will proudly open an embassy. No Palestinians or Israelis will be uprooted from their homes. Israel will work closely with a wonderful person, a wonderful man, the King of Jordan, to ensure that the status quo of the Temple Mount is preserved and strong measures are taken to ensure that all Muslims who wish to visit peacefully and pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque will be able to do so. This is a major statement. This is of major importance.

Donald Trump: (14:19)
And at the same time, our vision will deliver a massive commercial investment of $50 billion into the new Palestinian state. You have many, many countries that want to partake in this, and many of them are surrounding. They all want this to happen. Virtually every one of them want this to happen. And I think, Bibi, you know that very well. You’re going to have tremendous support from your neighbors and beyond your neighbors.

Donald Trump: (14:44)
Over the next 10 years, if executed well, 1 million great new Palestinian jobs will be created. Their poverty rate will be cut in half. And their poverty rate is unacceptable now and only getting worse. Their GDP will double and triple and much-needed hope, joy, opportunity, and prosperity will finally arrive for the Palestinian people. Our vision will end the cycle of Palestinian dependency upon charity and foreign aid. They will be doing phenomenally all by themselves. They are a very, very capable people. And we will help by empowering the Palestinians to thrive on their own. Palestinians will be able to seize the new future with dignity, self-sufficiency, and national pride.

Donald Trump: (15:42)
To ensure a successful Palestinian state, we are asking the Palestinians to meet the challenges of peaceful co-existence. This includes adopting basic laws enshrining human rights, protecting against financial…

Donald Trump: (16:03)
Laws, enshrining human rights. Protecting against financial and political corruption, stopping the malign activities of Hamas, Islamic jihad and other enemies of peace. Ending the incitement of hatred against Israel, so important, and permanently halting the financial compensation to terrorists.

Donald Trump: (16:24)
And perhaps most importantly, my vision gives the Palestinians the time needed to rise up and meet the challenges of statehood. I sent a letter today to President Abbas. I explained to him that the territory allocated for his new state will remain open and undeveloped for a period of four years.

Donald Trump: (17:05)
During this time, Palestinians can use all appropriate deliberation to study the deal, negotiate with Israel, achieve the criteria for statehood, and become a truly independent and wonderful state. President Abbas, I want you to know that if you choose the path to peace, America and many other countries we will be there. We will be there to help you in so many different ways and we will be there every step of the way. We will be there to help.

Donald Trump: (17:47)
In other words, for the first time in many, many decades, I can say it will work. It’s going to work. If they do this, it will work. Your response to this historic opportunity will show the world to what extent you are ready to lead the Palestinian people to statehood. The Middle East is changing rapidly. On my first trip aboard as President, I traveled to Saudi Arabia to discuss our shared priorities with the 54 leaders of the Muslim and Arab countries.

Donald Trump: (18:19)
I made clear that all civilized nations share the same goals, stamping out extremism, creating opportunity for the region’s youth, and we have to take care of the region’s youth. The region’s youth is growing up with no hope. We have to take care of the regions youth and existing in harmony with one’s neighbors. Since that time, immense progress has been made. A growing number of nations have taken strong stands against terrorism and radicalization. You see it. Thanks to the courage of US forces the ISIS territorial caliphate, 100%; not 95% not 99, or any other percent, 100% of their caliphate, ISIS is destroyed. And its Savage leader Al-Baghdadi is now dead.

Donald Trump: (19:13)
And I want to thank, we have some our great senators and congressmen and women here and I want to thank you all for the tremendous help. Thank you very much. Jim. Ted, everybody. Stew. Our leader, thank you. Mark, thank you. Great people. These are great people. They work so hard and they love this country.

Donald Trump: (19:42)
The Iranian regime is isolated and weakened greatly. We eliminated Qasem Soleimani the worlds top terrorist. And as you know, he was with the head of Hezbollah. I don’t think they were up to anything good. I don’t think so. He ran an organization called Jerusalem Liberation Forces and used his hatred, total severe hatred of Israel as a rallying cry to divert attention from the incompetence and shortcomings of his government.

Donald Trump: (20:46)
He falsely promoted the sinister notion that a free Jerusalem, we must really be at war with Israel. So to have it free, we have to be at war with Israel and he said it very, very powerfully. In fact, it’s been in this false war that Israel really the enemies of peace have used it. They just used it as an excuse to divide and totally oppress the Middle East. In truth, Jerusalem is liberated.

Donald Trump: (21:25)
Jerusalem is a safe, open, democratic city that welcomes people of all faiths and all places. It is time for the Muslim world to fix the mistake it made in 1948 when it chose to attack instead of recognize the new state of Israel. It’s time. Since then, the amount of needless bloodshed and all squandered opportunities, so many squandered opportunities in the name of senseless causes is beyond measure. The Palestinians have been the primary pawn in this regional adventurism and it’s time for this sad chapter in history to end, end quickly, end now. It’s never too late for courageous leaders to set a new course to pursue what is right, to change the future, only for the better.

Donald Trump: (22:38)
America is prepared to work with all parties on our vision. So many other countries are willing, ready, and able to work with us. I’ve spoken to many of them. I cannot believe the amount of support this morning has. I cannot believe it. I have been called by leaders. Boris called so many called and they’re all saying whatever we can do to help, they all want to see it happen.

Donald Trump: (23:05)
But America cannot care more about peace than the stakeholders in the region. There are many Muslims who never visited Al-Aqsa and many Christians and Jews who never visited the Holy sites in the West bank described so vividly in the Bible. My vision will change that. Our majestic biblical heritage will be able to live, breathe, and flourish in modern times. All humanity should be able to enjoy the glories of the Holy land. This part of the world is forever connected to the human soul and the human spirit. These ancient lands should not be symbols of conflict, but eternal symbols of peace.

Donald Trump: (23:56)
Thank you again for all of the work you’ve all done and all of these incredible honored guests for being here and in particular, I want to thank Prime Minister Netanyahu. I also want to thank Oman Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates for the incredible work they’ve done helping us with so much and sending their ambassadors to be with us today. Thank you very much for being here.

Benjamin N.: (24:51)
Omar Bahrain and the Arab Emirates?

Donald Trump: (24:51)
Yes [inaudible 00:24:33]. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please give our regards. America’s partnerships in the region have never been greater, and our alliance with the state of Israel has never ever been stronger than it is today.

Donald Trump: (25:12)
Together we can bring about a new dawn in the Middle East. And I would now, again, just like to thank everybody and a very special group of people, an incredible group of people. So many have been with us on this journey right from the beginning and we’re getting there. They say it’s the toughest deal ever to make in business when I have a tough deal, people would say this is tougher than the Israelis and the Palestinians. They used it as an excuse, meaning that was always the standard. Actually, there’s nothing tougher than this one, but we have to get it done. We have an obligation to humanity to get it done.
